Document BG to OBJ priority in CGB mode (#454)
gbdev/pandocs: src/Tile_Maps.md

Bit 2-0  Background Palette number  (BGP0-7)
```

Note that, if the map entry at `0:9800` is tile \$2A, the attribute at
`1:9800` doesn't define properties for ALL tiles \$2A on-screen, but only
the one at `0:9800`!

### BG-to-OBJ Priority in CGB Mode

In the CGB mode there are 3 different places where the priority between the BG (and window) layer and the OBJ layer is declared:
1. [BG Map Attribute bit 7](#bg-map-attributes-cgb-mode-only) - BG-to-OAM Priority (CGB Mode)
2. [LCDC bit 0](LCDC.md#lcdc0--bg-and-window-enablepriority) - BG and Window Priority (CGB Mode)
3. [OAM Attributes bit 7](OAM.md#byte-3--attributesflags) - BG and Window over OBJ

The following table visualize the relations between the 3 flags

> > **Notice:** OAM Attributes bit 7 will grant OBJ priority when clear and not when set

Reviewer: Same as my previous observation in this thread

Author: Replaced with tip note

| OAM Attributes bit 7 | BG Map Attribute bit 7 | LCDC bit 0 | Priority |
| -------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------- | -------- |
| [_] | [X] | [X] | BG color 0 - OBJ, otherwise BG |
| [_] | [X] | [_] | OBJ |
| [X] | [_] | [X] | BG color 0 - OBJ, otherwise BG |
| [X] | [X] | [X] | BG color 0 - OBJ, otherwise BG |
| [_] | [_] | [X] | OBJ |
| [_] | [_] | [_] | OBJ |
| [X] | [X] | [_] | OBJ |

> | [X] | [_] | [_] | OBJ |

Reviewer: Same here, I think this kind of "condition" table could be rendered in another way/more compliant to the rest of the document, especially because "[_]" and "[X]" are very unusual ways to render a Yes/No 1/0

Author: Replaced with 1/0

Bit 2-0  Background Palette number  (BGP0-7)
```

Note that, if the map entry at `0:9800` is tile \$2A, the attribute at
`1:9800` doesn't define properties for ALL tiles \$2A on-screen, but only
the one at `0:9800`!

### BG-to-OBJ Priority in CGB Mode

> 

Author: Added this below the explanation and merged with the tip note about the oam bit 7

In CGB Mode, the priority between the BG (and window) layer and the OBJ layer is declared in three different places:
1. [BG Map Attribute bit 7](#bg-map-attributes-cgb-mode-only) - BG-to-OAM Priority (CGB Mode)
2. [LCDC bit 0](LCDC.md#lcdc0--bg-and-window-enablepriority) - BG and Window Priority (CGB Mode)
3. [OAM Attributes bit 7](OAM.md#byte-3--attributesflags) - BG and Window over OBJ

We can infer the following rules from the table below:

> * When the BG color is 0 the OBJ will always have priority (ignoring the flags)
> * When LCDC bit 0 is clear OBJ will always have priority (ignoring the rest of the flags)
> * In order to grant the BG priority (color 1-3) LCDC bit 0 must be set and if OAM attributes bit 7 is clear BG Map attributes bit 7 must be set to override it

Reviewer 2: I think this formulation is clearer:

```suggestion
* If the BG color index is 0, the OBJ will always have priority;
* Otherwise, if LCDC bit 0 is clear, the OBJ will always have priority;
* Otherwise, if neither the BG Attributes nor the OBJ Attributes have bit 7 set, the OBJ will have priority;
* Otherwise, BG will have priority.
```

Author: I added this and reworded the third point a bit (as a non native English speaker it was a bit hard to understand at first) and added a tip about the purpose of the BG attr bit 7 (overriding the OAM attr bit 7)

Bit 2-0  Background Palette number  (BGP0-7)
```

Note that, if the map entry at `0:9800` is tile \$2A, the attribute at
`1:9800` doesn't define properties for ALL tiles \$2A on-screen, but only
the one at `0:9800`!

### BG-to-OBJ Priority in CGB Mode

> In the CGB mode there are 3 different places where the priority between the BG (and window) layer and the OBJ layer is declared:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In CGB Mode, the priority between the BG (and window) layer and the OBJ layer is declared in three different places:
```

> 1. [BG Map Attribute bit 7](#bg-map-attributes-cgb-mode-only) - BG-to-OAM Priority (CGB Mode)
> 2. [LCDC bit 0](LCDC.md#lcdc0--bg-and-window-enablepriority) - BG and Window Priority (CGB Mode)
> 3. [OAM Attributes bit 7](OAM.md#byte-3--attributesflags) - BG and Window over OBJ

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [BG Map Attribute bit 7](#bg-map-attributes-cgb-mode-only)
- [LCDC bit 0](LCDC.md#lcdc0--bg-and-window-enablepriority)
- [OAM Attributes bit 7](OAM.md#byte-3--attributesflags)
```

Author: Why remove the names of the flags?

The following table visualize the relations between the 3 flags

::: tip NOTE

OAM Attributes bit 7 will grant OBJ priority when clear and not when set

:::

> | OAM Attributes bit 7 | BG Map Attribute bit 7 | LCDC bit 0 | Priority |
> | :--------------------: | :----------------------: | :----------: | -------- |
> | 0 | 1 | 1 | BG color 0 - OBJ, otherwise BG |
> | 0 | 1 | 0 | OBJ |
> | 1 | 0 | 1 | BG color 0 - OBJ, otherwise BG |
> | 1 | 1 | 1 | BG color 0 - OBJ, otherwise BG |
> | 0 | 0 | 1 | OBJ |
> | 0 | 0 | 0 | OBJ |
> | 1 | 1 | 0 | OBJ |
> | 1 | 0 | 0 | OBJ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LCDC bit 0 | OAM attr bit 7 | BG attr bit 7 | Priority
:---------:|:--------------:|:-------------:|---------
0          | 0              | 0             | OBJ
0          | 0              | 1             | OBJ
0          | 1              | 0             | OBJ
0          | 1              | 1             | OBJ
1          | 0              | 0             | OBJ
1          | 0              | 1             | BG color 1–3, otherwise OBJ
1          | 1              | 0             | BG color 1–3, otherwise OBJ
1          | 1              | 1             | BG color 1–3, otherwise OBJ
```
I think organising the table like this makes the relationships clearer.

From the table we can infer the following:
* When the BG color is 0 the OBJ will always have priority (ignoring the flags)
* When LCDC bit 0 is clear OBJ will always have priority (ignoring the rest of the flags)

> * In order to grant the BG priority (color 1-3) LCDC bit 0 must be set and if OAM attributes bit 7 is clear BG Map attributes bit 7 must be set to override it

Reviewer 2: I'd put this above the table (and rephrase accordingly), since the rules are really simple.

> A test ROM for this behavior can be found [here](https://github.com/alloncm/MagenTests)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[This test ROM](https://github.com/alloncm/MagenTests) can be used to observe the above.
```

Bit 2-0  Background Palette number  (BGP0-7)
```

Note that, if the map entry at `0:9800` is tile \$2A, the attribute at
`1:9800` doesn't define properties for ALL tiles \$2A on-screen, but only
the one at `0:9800`!

### BG-to-OBJ Priority in CGB Mode

In CGB Mode, the priority between the BG (and window) layer and the OBJ layer is declared in three different places:
- [BG Map Attribute bit 7](<#BG Map Attributes (CGB Mode only)>)
- [LCDC bit 0](<#LCDC.0 — BG and Window enable/priority>)

> - [OAM Attributes bit 7](<#[Byte 3 — Attributes/Flags](https://gbdev.io/pandocs/OAM.html#byte-3--attributesflags)>)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [OAM Attributes bit 7](<#Byte 3 — Attributes/Flags>)
```

We can infer the following rules from the table below:
* If the BG color index is 0, the OBJ will always have priority;
* Otherwise, if LCDC bit 0 is clear, the OBJ will always have priority;

> * Otherwise, if both the BG Attributes and the OAM Attributes bit 7 is clear, the OBJ will have priority;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Otherwise, if both the BG Attributes and the OAM Attributes have bit 7 clear, the OBJ will have priority;
```

* Otherwise, BG will have priority.

::: tip

> BG Map attributes bit 7 is used to override OAM attributes bit 7

Reviewer 2: What is this saying?

Author: I'm not sure this is the best way to say it but I'm trying to explain the logical purpose of the BG Map attributes bit 7.
This is not a crucial detail but rather an interesting observation about the relation between those flags.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand how it "overrides" the other bit, since their roles are symmetrical.

Author: I don't think their roles are symmetrical, in order to grant the BG layer priority over the OBJ layer you first need LCDC bit 0 to be set.
Only if the OBJ attributes bit 7 is clear you also need to set BG attributes bit 7 but if OBJ attributes bit 7 is set BG attributes bit 7 is not relevant and can be ignored (it's state doesn't matter and the BG will have priority).

This was rather not really intuitive to me at first so I thought mentioning this in a tip box could help the reader.

Reviewer 2: I agree that LCDC bit 0 has a different role, but the role of BG and OBJ attributes' bit 7 is identical (besides the latter's inverted meaning).

Author: After more thinking I realized you are correct

:::

> The following table visualize the relations between the 3 flags

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following table shows the relations between the 3 flags:
```

LCDC bit 0 | OAM attr bit 7 | BG attr bit 7 | Priority
:---------:|:--------------:|:-------------:|---------

> 0          | 0              | 0             | OBJ
> 0          | 0              | 1             | OBJ
> 0          | 1              | 0             | OBJ
> 0          | 1              | 1             | OBJ
> 1          | 0              | 0             | OBJ
> 1          | 0              | 1             | BG color 1–3, otherwise OBJ
> 1          | 1              | 0             | BG color 1–3, otherwise OBJ
> 1          | 1              | 1             | BG color 1–3, otherwise OBJ

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
0          | 1              | 0             | OBJ
0          | 1              | 1             | OBJ
0          | 0              | 0             | OBJ
0          | 0              | 1             | OBJ
1          | 1              | 0             | OBJ
1          | 1              | 1             | BG color 1–3, otherwise OBJ
1          | 0              | 0             | BG color 1–3, otherwise OBJ
1          | 0              | 1             | BG color 1–3, otherwise OBJ
```
Looks like we forgot that OBJ attributes bit 7 is inverted... right?

Author: The original is the actual value of the bit, not sure if you want to invert it but I think it will more confusing seeing in this table inverted values for this bit (there is also a warning below stating that OBJ get priority upon clear and not set).

Reviewer 2: When the bit is 0, the OBJ loses priority, so  `1 0 0` shows BG, not the OBJ. The original appears not to be `[$FExx] >> 7`.

Reviewer 2: No, it is correct, I'm just being confused.

[This test ROM](https://github.com/alloncm/MagenTests) can be used to observe the above.

::: warning

Keep in mind that:
* OAM Attributes bit 7 will grant OBJ priority when **clear**, not when **set**.

> * priority between all OBJs is resolved **before** priority with the BG layer is considered.
> Please refer [to this page](<#Drawing priority>) for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Priority between all OBJs is resolved **before** priority with the BG layer is considered.
  Please refer [to this page](<#Drawing priority>) for more details.
```
